Dear Dharma Friends, the Sutra of the Great
Victory, the Vietnamese Samyutta Nikaya,
Volume 4, Sutra No.
1138, published by the Vietnam Buddhist Research Institute in
1995, page
139,
speaks of the Buddha instructing Kashyapa to
teach the monks. Kashyapa
said that the monks refused to
listen, and even if they did listen, they refused to
practice. The Buddha then asked the reason, and
Kashyapa spoke of two monks:
one named Banchu, a disciple of Ananda,
and the other named Aphuti, a
disciple of Mahamoggallana.
These two were arguing about their extensive knowledge,
debating and competing to see who knew
more. Dear Dharma Friends,
from reading this sutra,
we must learn a lesson:
when two people argue and
compete to see who knows more, it
is very difficult to guide them in the Dharma.
Even Kashyapa could not guide
them. This is when they cling to their own
views.  Those who boast
about their knowledge, argue about their superiority, and compete
over
knowledge, are very difficult to save.
Even Venerable Kasyapa could not save them, so he had to go
to the
Buddha. Therefore, we see
cases where people boast about their knowledge and
belittle others. In
those cases, we see that they also fall into
the same situation described in
this sutra. From here, we should reflect on whether
we are arrogant about our theoretical understanding of
Buddhist teachings. Here,
they are arguing about their extensive
knowledge—that is, hearing, understanding, and
knowing a lot—
and they debate about right and wrong to
see who knows more and who knows less.
This is a serious problem.
And in this sutra, the
Buddha saw that Venerable Kasyapa was not capable of saving them,
so the Buddha instructed him to call
those two people to be saved by the Buddha. Only a
Buddha in
this world could save those people. Then the Buddha rebuked them, saying, "Do you know that when I speak of
the Sutras and debates,
ignorant people like you bring them up for
discussion? Who understands?"  Knowing more, who knows better?
That is, the Buddha said that he
was the one who
expounded the Sutras and debated them. Was it so that
these people would only use the Sutras to
argue with each other, to claim right and
wrong? The Buddha said
this, and at that time, the two monks
confessed, "We repent, Venerable One, we
repent, we are
foolish and lack discernment, and we argue
with each other." The two monks then
realized their foolishness. Therefore, the Buddha
taught that the Sutras and
their interpretations are for self-discipline, self-restraint, and self-
seeking Nirvana. The Buddha asked, "Do you
understand that the
Buddha's Sutras are meant to be practiced by oneself to
eliminate defilements, afflictions, and
suffering, and to attain Nirvana?"
The Buddha taught that the Buddha's Sutras
are for this purpose, not for
arguing about who is right and
wrong. Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners, the Great
Kasyapa used the thirteen ascetic practices to
practice the Four Foundations of Mindfulness right in the body, feelings, mind, and phenomena.
I
use these 13 ascetic practices
to eliminate defilements in the mind, to
purify the
mind and attain liberation.
In meditation, let's
reflect on our past actions. Have we
used the Buddha's teachings
to cultivate our ego? Have we used the Buddha's teachings merely to gain respect from
others?
Do we always have
a
mind that argues with the Buddha's teachings, debating right and
wrong, using the Buddha's teachings to
argue with each other? Remembering the practice of the Buddha's teachings, I
recall a
few
years ago, a
few days, with some fellow
Buddhists who criticized Mahayana Buddhism,
only arguing about right and wrong,
slandering it without understanding the
underlying meaning. They
didn't understand the
inner practice. Depending on individual capacity, the essence of the
Dharma is to help
us recognize suffering,
abandon defilements in the mind, and achieve purity.
However, it may
not be suitable for their practice, so they
criticize it, only arguing with each other. In
reality, regarding the practice
...  We need to discuss what is true Dharma and
what is false Dharma, but
not to argue or slander.
We can say what
is right and what is wrong, but we
must not harbor hatred, resentment, arrogance, contempt, disdain, or slander. Attaching these things to the discussion is a grave
sin. Therefore,
during this contemplative practice session,
let's examine whether, in the past,
when sharing the Dharma, we have engaged in
such arguments or slander. Have we
truly had a pure heart towards the Dharma? Or have
we slandered or scorned others?
Secondly, let's consider whether we are truly
practitioners of the Dharma, or
merely using it for frivolous debates and
arguments. That is the second point in
this contemplative session. And
thirdly, let's cultivate the aspiration to learn,
practice, and experience the Dharma throughout our lives, striving to
practice the
Buddha's teachings, not to be caught in the trap of using the Dharma
as a
shield to gain fame or to compete with others. These are the three points we
need to contemplate.  From this, we can see
the nobility of those who practice
asceticism—true practice,
true realization—and the Dharma of asceticism is a
clearly manifested Dharma, making it
easy to practice, easy to
verify, and inspiring. Therefore, we should revere the Dharma of asceticism and wish
all fellow practitioners a joyful spirit. Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni
[music]
I